One of the most
commonly looked for
feature best things
about Bootstrap is it
allows you to build really nice
looking collapsible menu items.
So there's the nav for
different Nav Menus,
bunch of options you can
set that the mess tabs,
drop-down items that
you can add in.
You can set them to take
the full width
across, center them.
There's a lot of different
options building
out the navigation
bar for your website.
This is an example of
the navigation bar where
once we bring it down to
a certain size, it's
gonna collapse.
We see the hamburger icon menu.
Click that and that's going
to open up the link menu,
Google Branding texts there on
the larger screens
That's going to be open.
The links are gonna
be horizontal.
On the smaller screens,
they're going to be
vertical and they're gonna
collapse within the hang
of hamburger icon menu.
This lesson we're
gonna be looking at
the nav components and
as well as the navbar.
So the most basic one
is the naff component,
and this creates the
navigation type format
for items for a page elements
are going to be using
the unordered lists.
So typically when we are
creating navs for websites,
we use the list items.
This makes it a little
bit easier to read,
creating the class of
nav for the parent,
and then for the list
items themselves or for
the page elements
that we're going
to make clickable
within the list,
set that as a nav item.
And then these are typically
going to be hyperlinks.
So set those up as a
hyperlink using the H ref.
And right now that's not
going to go to anything.
Adding in a class.
And the class that
we're using is gonna be
a nav link class
and close that up.
And this will represent
the links within
the navigation bar.
We can have multiple links,
of course, within the navbar.
So I just started
in four there and
they just get stocked
horizontally.
So by default it is stacking it
horizontally as opposed to
if it was just a
regular list item,
it would be done vertically.
If we were to move
out and remove it,
the parent nav class,
these would just be list items,
stocking them horizontally,
horizontally.
You could also justify
and justify the
content of a knots.
So setting it up and
let's set the justify
of the content and center
all of the content.
So that basically centers
the content can set
a background color of
light that will highlight
that entire element.
And for NOV, so we can also
use tabs within the nav list.
So setting up as nav,
and then we can set
these as NADPH tops.
That sets them up as tabs,
and in each one of those items,
now, for the nav links,
we can select one and
set it as active.
And that's going
to be represented
as active within the tabs.
And you don't have to
justify the content.
Typically when you
are using the tabs,
they're gonna be pulled
over to the left-hand side.
There's also an option to use
pills for the list items.
That's another example
of what you can do.
So let's set these
up instead of tabs,
select them as nav pills.
And the active one is going
to be the one that's going
to get the color
associated with it.
And that's set to the links
for these menus as well.
We can set them as
nav and justified.
And what that will
do, the justified,
we'll provide an equal width to
the items within the list.
So that will automatically
become responsive and allow
us to have each one of them
take up selected width.
And just like the
typically for navigation,
Let's add in one
more example and
you can do a drop-down list.
So similar to what we just did
before with the drop-down.
If you want to create one
of these as a dropdown.
So I'm going to
set any of them as
active and we'll select that.
And I'm not going to
justify this one either.
So this one is just speak going
over to the left-hand side.
And let's select
this and set them
as the list item and
set it as a dropdown.
So we'll have a
multiple items there.
And this is still going
to be a nav item.
Set it as a drop down.
So that's going to give
it the dropdown class.
Then for the dropdown items,
we want to have a
way to click and
have the drop-down
for the elements.
So let's set this up.
And we need to use
the data toggle
attribute and set
that to drop down.
That will set dot link
as the drop-down.
For the class.
It can use a nav link and drop
down toggle within the element.
That gives it this
type of effect
where we can drop down toggle.
So then it needs
some dropdown items.
So let's set that up
as a class and set
down the drop-down menu class.
So creating all the
elements that are contained
within their dropdown items,
you need to have a parent
set those up as a div.
And then within the div,
this is where we can wrap
the hyperlinks within those.
So that will give us
the dropdown items.
And instead of nav links,
these are now going to be,
when we click it, it's going to
open up the dropdown items.
And let's select few other ones.
And we can add multiple
dropdown items,
and they're all
gonna be presented
within the drop-down list.
You can also add in some
text into the dropdown.
So that gives you that
drop down structure.
You can also do the drop-downs.
You can do it within
the tabs as well.
So it's another option
for creating navigation.
So just create a second one that
was similar to what
we just created.
Instead of pills.
Let's show you in just two tabs.
And then whatever
we set as active,
that's the one that's
gonna get the tab option.
If we have the first
item there as active,
now the drop-down is going
to be within the tabs.
The navbar for websites
is used for navigation.
And bootstrap allows
you to create
a quick navigation bar that
can collapse dependent
on the screen size.
So it's great.
A typical navigation bar
that we can then resize
and have it collapsed.
So that way we can use it for
different size screens and
for the navigation bar.
So I'll do an unordered
list for this one using
the nav bar class and nav.
So it's going to be
for the parent element
and then for each item that's
contained within there.
So we'll have the list items
set the class for the list item.
These are all nav item classes
and then the hyperlinks that
are contained within those.
Not gonna set that
to go to anywhere,
but they will need a class as
well in order to identify them.
And they're going to use
the nav link and see
what that looks like.
So that gives us
the navigation bar.
So let's wrap this in a parent
which we'll call enough.
And this is where
we're going to have
the navigation bar
responsive aspect,
where we're going to expand it
and then what size screen
we want to expand it on.
And we're gonna set it to SM.
So this will give the parent
container the information
for the navigation.
So on the smaller screen,
it's going to stack
them vertically,
whereas on the larger screens,
it's going to still
go horizontally.
You can add in a
background color
here as well for
the navigation bar.
And let's also set for the text.
And that's going to be
for the text itself.
So within the classes
of the hyperlinks,
we need to add in that
these links are gonna
take a class for the light text
in order to have
the text show up as
light text so we can
update the parent.
And whenever we put the
texts light into the parent,
that means that it's
simply going to
be applying it only to the text.
The hyperlinks are different,
so you need to apply
the different classes
to the hyperlinks
themselves as well.
So we can set this to break
on medium sized screens,
whereas smaller,
whereas largest screens
it's gonna go horizontal.
So a smaller screens
it's gonna go vertical.
You can also center the
content just as we saw with
the other Nav option
where we can do
the justify content center.
And so that will
center the link,
also setting up the
colored navigation bar,
where instead of
setting the text light,
Let's set the nav bar too late,
and that will automatically
update the link content.
So save you the
trouble of adding
the text Light class
to the hyperlinks.
We can also set the navbar
too dark, the dark color.
And let's update this to so
far navigation bar is dark,
that will set the
links to lighter text.
That will update
it automatically
sealed off to select
them individually.
But you can also
select the text.
In order to Todd white text.
You set it too dark.
And in order to add light text,
you set it too late for the
navigation bar background.
If you don't set a primary
as a background color,
Let's set it to
have a background,
dark background, dark color.
And then the contrasting
for the navbar is dark.
So that way that the
text is gonna be
late as opposed to setting
the background light.
You can also set the
navbar to light that will
allow you to still see all of
the links within
the navigation bar.
Let's create a, another
navigation bar.
And this is going
to be typical one
that uses a hamburger icon.
So we'll update the
one that we already
have and add that
within the container.
And so we use the nav class
and have this one as
an expand on the SM.
If you do need to set that,
this is going to be where
the navigation bar is going
to break and where
it's going to expand.
So if you update those,
it's going to update
where it's expanding.
So right now on the
medium-sized screens and below,
it's going to be horizontal.
On the larger size screens,
it's gonna it's
gonna be vertical on
the smaller screens
and horizontal
on the longer, larger screens.
Typically you would use SAM,
but you can use the
other sizes as well.
Within the navbar, you can set
a fluid cloths so that can use
the parent's set within
the parent and using
the class wants to take up
all the available space,
will apply separate
container to it.
And set it up as
container fluid.
That's just going to
wrap right around
the unordered list
and allow us to set
different colors for the
unordered list if we want
to click containing
that unordered list
in that main container.
So allowing us to take
the full available width
across and also creating
a parent container.
This is where also if you
wanted to have a logo,
you could add that logo
and let's have an image.
And a source for the image
is going to be the logo.
And then let's add in
some classes for it.
Now there are classes
for it and typically
you wouldn't have
a massive local.
You could restrict the size of
the container as well as you can
set the default width that
you want for the logo.
So those are some of the
options, but with the class,
you can set the class
width twenty-five percent.
If we want the image
to only take up 25%,
we can use the W 25.
That's going to set it
relevant to the parent size,
relevant to the parent.
I'll take a little look at
that a little bit
later on as well.
That's setting us,
and that's giving us
an option to set a logo.
And also for the class of this,
let's set this as nav.
So that will
automatically set it up
as a local within
the navigation bar.
And we should actually have
the navbar brand as
a separate element
surrounds the image.
We don't want to be
using that class as
the navbar brand
around the image.
And that's going to
set the image as
the brand image within the logo.
Also here, we can
set a width for it.
If you are using
an image that's rather large
and in this case it is,
you can make it a lot smaller.
So that way it's
going to fit a lot
better into as a logo.
So that's another option
as well where you can set
an image and I'll see you can
add in within the branding.
You can have some texts
as well that can add
in within the navigation
bar an image local,
as well as text within
the image logo.
So after we've set the brand,
we want to set the
collapsible button.
You can set this
again as any element.
I'm going to use buttons.
So typically this is a
button that gets pressed.
So we're gonna set
it as a button.
And the class for
this one is going
to be the button toddler.
And the type is going to
be just a regular button.
And we need to add in
some data attributes.
So it's using the data attribute
for toggle where we're
using the collapse,
that it's going to toggle
a certain target object.
And this as well.
So we need to specify the
data BAS target element,
and this is
identified by its ID.
So we need to have hash,
and I'll call it main nav as
the ID for
the main navigation
content. Within the button.
There is a navbar toddler
icon in Bootstrap.
You can add that
in using the span.
And Navbar toddler
icon is going to be
the class in order to bring in
that element into
the navigation bar.
Now we need to
select the rest of
the elements that we
want to collapse.
So it's going to be
contained within the div.
And this is where we
need to identify it by
the ID for what we
want to collapse.
And the content that we want to
collapse needs to be
contained within this parent.
So it's navbar collapse class
and then give it an ID.
And that ID has to
match the ID that we
set within the button
collapsible objects.
So that has to be the same.
And if it's an ID, then
that's where we're
using the hash.
Let's close off the
def after that.
Now whenever we go smaller,
we see that we've got
this hamburger icon
that we can open and
close on the larger
sized screens
that's going to disappear.
And we're going to just have
the regular default menu.
And just as we saw before,
if we want to adjust
where the breakpoint is,
if you want to break on
medium-sized screens,
we can add that as well.
Then he wouldn't know
any of one of the links.
And we can add additional
links as needed into the menu.
And also when we
expand the large,
that menu is going to
be able to be seen
horizontally and it goes
vertical with the
collapsible button.
Once it's on a
smaller size screen,
That's how you can
set a navigation bar
dot collapses and is
fully responsive.
Depending on the screen size and
anything within this
collapsible area,
div is going to
collapse in the menu.
So even if you had a title,
that would also be there.
So you could add in a title to
your navigation bar and it
doesn't really fit in well.
But that's another
option as well,
that you could have
hard-coded text within
your navigation bar because this
is within the
collapsible content.